# Bar Reference Application

This terminal application will be used to display information about beers, wines, spirits and other alcoholic beverages, that would be stocked in a bar.

A user will be able to add and remove items to the database and retrieve an item's information (alcohol percentage/standard drinks, where it's from, serving size, etc.) using a search function.

The core feature of the app will be to take user input and 'mix' items and retrieve the new combined items information, allowing users to see and create information regarding cocktails.

## Setup

### Dependencies
The application does not require any installed packages and uses the following functions from builtin packages of python3:
- json in function/file_function.py
- os in function/file_function.py
- datetime in function/item_function.py
- random in function/basic.py

### First Use

In order to start using the application, run the application from the terminal using "main.py" and follow the below steps:
- After running the application, you will be prompted to enter the name of your "bar", this is akin to a login as different bars will have different menus.
- Once you have entered the name of your bar you will be prompted to enter the standard serve for both beer and wine.
    - For beer you will have a selection of commonly used beer glass sizes (pot, schooner, etc.)
    - For wine you will enter a standard serve in millilitres.
- Now that you've entered the information relevant to your bar, you can begin to enter items into your bar's menu.
- **The bar's info and menu will not be saved until an item is added.**

The application can be modified to only handle one bar's information using the following steps:
- On line 8 of main.py, replace ```str(input("Name of your bar: "))``` with the name of your bar in quotation marks, e.g. "My Bar"
- After doing this, each run of the application will only access your bar's menu.

## Using the Application

### Adding items
To add an item, follow these steps:
- Enter 1 when on the application's main menu.
- Enter the type of item you wish to add.
- When prompted enter the requested information.
    - Name: The brand or product name of the item you are adding.
    - Alcohol Percentage: The alcohol percentage of the item, entered as any positive number, where for example, entering "4" would be an alcohol percentage or 4%.
    - Price: How much you would sell the item for a standard serve.
- Approve adding the item and the item will be saved, an item code is automatically randomly generated by the application.
- Once you have at least one item you will be able to create mixes too, using a similar process.

### Creating mixes
To create a mix:
- First you will be prompted to enter a name for the item you wish to add.
- Next you will be prompted to add items by searching for them by code or name.
- Once you have successfully entered the code or name of an item that exists in the menu, you will enter the volume of that item that you are using in the mix.
- Then you will have the option to add more ingredients, using the same process.
- Once you stop adding ingredients, you will be prompted to input a new price for the mix that you have created.
- After entering a new price, the mix's information will be presented, with an auto-generated code and date added info and you will have the option to save it to the bar menu.
- Once saved, the mix item will appear in search and in menu lists.

### Searching items
To search for an item:
- Enter 3 when on the application's main menu.
- Enter the item's name or code (find the code by seeing the item lists)
- If the item exists, all of it's information will be presented.
- Choose to either delete the item by entering "D" or return to the main menu by entering "E".
- If you opt to delete an item, you will be asked to confirm, after confirming the item will be removed from the menu.

### Item lists
Otherwise known as 'menus', these show simplified information (item code, name and price) of either all items or items filtered by type, depending on your input.
The search options are by type, so you can search for beer, wine, spirit or mix, or you can simply show all items by entering "all".
- Enter 4 when on the applications main menu.
- Enter the either the type of items you'd like to see, or "all".
- The lists will be printed to the terminal.

## Classes, Class Methods
### Classes
- **Bar class**: This class is used to define and access the stored values that the terminal application uses. It's variables include name (str), beer_serve (str), wine_serve (int) and items (list). All of these variables are specifically in reference to a single bar in the context of the application. The bar class has a \__str__ method and several getter and setter methods. It also has the following methods attached:
    - add_item: Used to append stock items to the items list variable.
    - search_item: Used to filter through the items variable and then display one result.
    - delete_item: Used to filter through and remove a single item from the items variable.

- **Stock class**: The stock class and its subclasses, Beer, Wine, Spirit and Mix, are all used to define and access dictionary items containted within the items variable in the Bar class. All of the methods in these classes are \__str__ and getter methods which serve to display or retrieve variable data. The variables used in the Stock class are as follows:
    - date: When the item is added.
    - code: A randomly generated item code.
    - name: The name of the item.
    - alc: The alcohol content of the item, is a percentage, except in Mix, where it is a standard drink value.
    - cost: The cost to buy the item.
    - type: The category of the item; beer, wine etc.
    - serve: The serving size of the item, represents a mL value.
    - mixed: indicates if an item is a mix.
    - subtype: The more complex category an item belongs to; vodka, rum etc. Exclusive to the Spirit class.
    - recipe: Is a list item that contains a list that has each name and mL of item used in a mix object.

## Technical Notes
- When the app is first run, no data folder will exist, however upon making a new bar and saving the first item, the ```saveFile()``` function in functions/file_function.py starting line 9, will create a new data folder and the bar's specific data folder using the os class' ```mkdir()``` method.